# Real-Time: Websockets, SSE, Push Notification

> Friday 1:03 PM at work

It's been a rough week. I was initially assigned to work on notifications revamp, where I mostly implemented facade endpoints weaving legacy and newly introduced notifications together. All of a sudden a new requirement came in, and the same product people from notifications revamp wanted this new requirement started. I had let them know that I don't have enough bandwidth, but they insisted and even stated that they'd rather delegate the notifications revamp on others so I can dive into this new requirement. So I switched as requested, but then, as soon as the need for ad-hoc adjustments for notifications revamp came in, the same product people pulled me in. If I'm being honest, I felt little annoyed that they couldn't kept their word. I decided to simply brush those thoughts off and started switching context right away. After all, these product people are aware I'll be putting the new requirement on hold. Fast forward, I delivered the requested ad-hoc adjustments for notifications revamp.

The next day, another concern came up, and I got pulled into it again. App devs are looking for a way to retrieve notifications count in real time. Considering this notifications aren't really that critical, I was under the impression that they'd only need polling at most. To my surprise, they were looking for websockets, which I immediately found odd and so I openly pointed it out that it's overkill (2-way communication for a simple notification count). Leads from both App and BE joined the conversation and said that there's existing support for websockets. So I asked for any related class, they shared one, and upon checking, it's actually a silent push notification.

I initially thought that it was such a clever way of handling notification count i.e., App listens for these silent push notifications and then they call count summary endpoint every time as they receive them. Got curious and I decided to read the docs, Apple docs for iOS push notifications to be specific, where I came across a few statements telling that it's susceptible to delays and in some cases, doesn't even guarantee delivery. At this point, I thought to myself that they're better off with polling rather than this. I shared the docs I found and even suggested SSE (Server Sent Events - unidirectional communication via HTTP). Fast forward, they still ended up sticking with the silent push notification. 

I really couldn't care less about the decision, but since I already spent some time with this concern, I decided to try if SSE would actually work on this legacy service. It didn't right away. So I tried the exact same SSE code but in a freshly created project, and it works perfectly fine. Upon further checking, it turns out that this legacy service has a filter that ends up buffering the supposedly stream event responses. Just for the sake of curiousity, I modified this filter, ignored the SSE request, and it worked.

