# Go: context and observability

> Sunday 6:56 PM

The first time I came across the context package, I had this surface-level understanding: a convenient way of handling timeouts, whether for incoming requests, outgoing requests, or database queries, using something like a linked-list structure.

I've been meaning to explore observability but didn't want to go full OTEL just yet. So I attempted to create a simple tracer using context. I borrowed the concept of `Span` from OTEL and defined a simple struct for it.

Then leveraged the context's linked-list structure to store it using the WithValue function, making the parent extraction for the traceID feasible.

To be honest, even after that, my view of the context package still felt somewhat abstract. But since I'm on this journey of exploring Go's standard library anyways, I gave in and decided to dig deeper so I could finally put some lingering questions in my head at rest.

Here are some notes for my typically forgetful self.

`func WithValue(parent Context, key, val any) Context`: returns a derived context (valueCtx) that points to the parent context, making an immutable linked-list.

`func (c *valueCtx) Value(key any) any`: has a recursive nature that traverses the linked-list, returning matching key's value.

`func WithCancel(parent Context) (ctx Context, cancel CancelFunc)`: also returns a derived context (cancelCtx) that points to the parent context, but propagates a map of children as well, making a linked-list with tree-like structure.

`func WithCancelCause(parent Context) (ctx Context, cancel CancelCauseFunc)`: behaves like WithCancel but has the option to supply a specific cause.

`func (c *cancelCtx) Value(key any) any`: also has a recursive nature that traverses the linked-list, but returns a cancelCtx when supplied by `&cancelCtxKey`

`func Cause(c Context) error`: leverages the above to get the cause, else returns the typical c.Err()

