# Go: Little escapes from my bloated reality

> Sunday 1:15 AM

Dozed off for a little bit, took a hot shower, and thought of creating an entry. A not so technical entry.

I had been a little too restless lately (of course due to work, what else could it be.). It felt like being in a slump, a different yet familiar type of slump where it seems as if I'm on auto pilot, delivering substantial and quality contributions at work as usual, and yet feeling so done with everything due to unnecessary bloat that leaks beyond technical boundaries.

Working with legacy systems is like Tuesdays. You can make isolated changes on top, around, or even cautiously replace a certain piece with an adapter to modernize a specific part without that tower of Jenga collapsing. Undeniably, too much of it can get pretty exhausting, but I must say, it's still forgivable considering that some of these complexities are inherent and essentials, while others are accidental. It's definitely a time and energy sink, but at the end of the day, it's still all software, an intangible set of instructions with deterministic nature at its core (might no longer be true in some of today's world of slop-powered software).

Putting all that aside, the thing that nails the coffin is having to waste time and energy with people's concerns or conflict of interests that have nothing to do with the project's goal. It should have been pretty obvious what a company wants out of developers: a working software. And yet, a lot of people (yes, people. Devs themselves, QA, management, an so on.) in this industry seem to forget or dismiss it even. I couldn't care less if one chooses to pretend, save face, or make something up to make themselves seem important, as long as they don't get in the way of development. But more often than not, these conflict of interests lead to corporate bloat, affecting focused individuals who do the actual work that not only moves the needle but the whole sewing machine.

Exhaustion from having to deal with this on a daily basis had been weighing down on me, and while Go has nothing to do with this, I just want to articulate how working with Go in my personal time is such a pleasant experience, where bloat, both figuratively and literally, is little to none.

